OOTD Rally #1   Sea Choi

Introduction to the Theme Passage: Colossians 3:1-4

If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things
that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand
of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on
things that are on earth. For you have died, and your life
is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ who is your life
appears, then you also will appear with him in glory.

Contextual Background
Apostle Paul writing to the church in Colossea, reminding them of their identity in Jesus as they struggled with false teachings.

Asked about our outfits and invites us to make Christ our ultimate outfit everyday.

Seek

If then you have been raised with
Christ, seek the things that are above,
where Christ is, seated at the right
hand of God.

Colossians 3:1

Greek word: zēteō
active pursuit.
to search for, desire, crave, aim at.
Emphasis: Pursuit.

We struggle to believe that the things above are more important than the things of this earth. But no matter how far our pursuits, we are truly never satisfied or fulfilled. This leads to the following quote:

“If I find myself desires which
nothing in this world can satisfy, the
only logical explanation is that I was
made for another world.”
CS Lewis

Revelation 21:2-4

Our good feelings in this world will always fade. Jesus, on the other hand is personal, near and steady.



Set

Set your minds on things that are
above, not on things that are on earth.
Colossians 3:2

Greek word: phroneō
“fix your thoughts on”
to think about, dwell on, be oriented toward.
adopt a mindset or worldview
Emphasis: Focus/Perspective.

Seek vs Set
Feet vs Eyes

Matthew 6:19-21

Romans 12:2

what you seek and what you set your thoughts on will shape
what you wear: your character, your witness, your life


Secure
For you have died, and your life is
hidden with Christ in God. When Christ
who is your life appears, then you also
will appear with him in glory.
Colossians 3:3-4

In Luke 15, it talks about the Return of the Prodigal Son.

The father brings the best

The father comes and clothes his son personally

robe = 
ring = 
shoes = 


the image of that of Jesus to us.


- Keep your eyes set on Jesus
- Let your feet seek after Him
- Secure your heart in the Truth
that Jesus sought and set His
eyes on you, first


Discussion Questions:

1. What’s an outfit that makes you feel confident?
2. If someone followed you around for a day — based
on how you talk, what you stress about, what you
prioritize — what would they say you're seeking?
3. How could seeking Jesus and setting your mind on
Him change the way you live/view your life?