acts prayer model		leilani obana

john 10:24

john 10:28

when we place


So what is prayer?

1. Communication with the Lord
- prayer doesnt have to be formal
- He hears everything
- He is near and our Friend

2. Prayer is praising and worshipping the Lord
- natural response
...

1. Prayer is how we deepen our personal relationship with Him
- "Prayer is like a wartime walkie-talky" John Piper
- We have direct access to the God of the universe
- Like a walkie-talkyy, we can both speak and listen

Why pray?

1. An act of obedience to the Lord's command to love Him
"Love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength"
Deuteronomy 6:5

2. Jesus prayed all the time!
"Jesus often withdrew to desolate places and prayed"
Luke 5:16
"Jesus faced persecution, trials, heartache, and physical suffering. Without regular and continual access to the throne of God, He would surely have found those events unbearable"
GQ

3. the Lord loves you deeply, and wants to hear and answer you
- we are chosen (elect)
- we are to always pray and never lose heart
- God is the ultimate and perfect Judge
  - He is kind and righteous How much more does He love you, care for you, and want to act on your behalf?

Luke 18:1-8

Philippians 4:5-7

**Adore**
- Be in AWE of who God is
- He is
  - Creator
  - Good
  - Love
  - Steadfast
  - Merciful
  - Gracious
  - Just
  - Sovereign
  - Faithful

Scriptures to pray through
"Bless the LORD, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless His holy name"
Psalm 103:1

"The LORD is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. He will not always chide, nor will he keep his anger forever. He does not deal with us according to our sins nor repay us according to our iniquities"
Psalm 103:8-10

Confess
- Confess to the Lord your own sin, and how you have turned away from Him
- Experience His mercy, and take the opportunity to turn to Him

Scriptures to pray through
"I confess my iniquity; I am sorry for my sin"
Psalm 38:18

"Have mercy on me, O god, according to your steadfast love; according to your abundant mercy blot out my transgressions"
Psalm 51:1

"Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me"
Psalm 51:10

**Thanksgiving**
- Give thanks to the Lord in all circumstances (1 Thessalonians 5:18)
- All blessings flow from Him
- Thank Him for how He provides

Scriptures to pray through
"Oh give thanks to the LORD, for He is good, for His steadfast love endures forever!"
Psalm 107:1

"I will give to the LORD the thanks due to his righteousness, and I will sing praise to the LORD, the Most High"
Psalm 7:17

**Supplication**
- let your requests be known to God (Phil. 4:6)
- present your needs and wants from Him
- asks that His will, not your will would be done

Scriptures to pray through
"Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not in temptation but deliver us from evil"
Matthew 6:10-13

"But my eyes are fixed on you, Sovereign LORD; in you I take refuge - do not leave me defenseless"
Psalm 141:8