Honoring and Imaging Jesus As We Learn to Love Our LGBT+ Neighbors | Steven Cooper

Pastor Steven Cooper Background

Became Christian 35 years, grew up going to a church where they were anti LGBT. 
Everything changed when he made a friend who was LGBT.


Paolo

Born in a large Italian, Catholic family, bottom of 7 kids, 6 brothers, 1 sister.
Grew up in a traditional catholic home, where he thought God hated LGBT.

Brothers played sports, very heterosexual.

Grew up hiding a lot of his feelings, started to realize his draw to other males in his class around 7 or 8.
Found himself liking more of the princes than the princesses when watching movies, etc.

Tried to drown out anything that could show his homosexuality towards high school.
It was depressing and exhausting, just trying to satisfy everyone else.

Wrote out his feelings at around 12-13, wishing he could die.

You don't dishonor the family in Italian culture, so he couldn't kill himself, but couldn't come out either.

Started partying, getting involved with drugs and alcohol in early 20s to hide from his identity.

Called his brother, and then started coming out to everyone around him.

Was accepted for the most part, especially with his brothers who were finally able to see him.

Started dating a lot, felt entitled to having a partner or having sexual experiences.

Was trying to gain freedom, but looking back realizes he was simply selling himself.


Heard about the gospel and grace for the first time through his Christian friend.



Celibacy and singleness


Found the altar at a Christian wedding he went to

committed to celibacy and singleness 8 years ago



Ways to be biblical in regards to LGBT+


We want to encourage LGBT people to know and obey Jesus

Also encourage them to be honest about their lives

Honoring and Imaging Jesus

1. Biblical Position

The Problem: 2 Ways the Church has hurt the LGBT community

Affirming
- cut out parts of the bible
- love without truth

vs

Anti-LGBT
- cut people off from the gospel
- truth without love

Jesus brings a third way through the Gospel. (messy middle)

intersection of religious and sexual brokenness

John 8:1-11

Jesus finds a third way. Jesus confronts the religious leaders, before the person.
"Neither do I  comdemn you. But also isn't affirming side.

1 Corinthians 6:9-11

1 Tim 1:5-15



A biblical position must include knowing how to resond to people who fall short of God's perfect standard.

For the church to be the church, how we treat those who fall short is even more important how we explain the Bible's sexual ethics.


Children need to know that no matter what, they are loved. 

Biblical Posture

Matt 5:44-45

Romans 2:4
God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance

Religion says: "I messed up, my dad is going to kill me."

The Gospel says: "I messed up, I need to call my Dad."

John 21:15-17

How to Show Jesus' 3rd Way
1. admit the church has hurt the LGBT+ community
2. ask them about their experience (& apologize)
3. have a relationship first posture
4. have a gospel first attitude
5. don't need them to agree with you

Henry Cloud: Grace and Truth + Time = Growth

Matt 28:5-7
Mark 16:7 "and Peter"